
--- PAGE 1 ---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING, VOL. XX, NO. X, JUL Y 2021 1
Knowledge Graph-enhanced Sampling for
Conversational Recommendation System
Mengyuan Zhao, Xiaowen Huang*, Lixi Zhu, Jitao Sang, Jian Yu
Abstract—The traditional recommendation systems mainly use ofﬂine user data to train ofﬂine models, and then recommend items for
online users, thus suffering from the unreliable estimation of user preferences based on sparse and noisy historical data.
Conversational Recommendation System (CRS) uses the interactive form of the dialogue systems to solve the intrinsic problems of
traditional recommendation systems. However, due to the lack of contextual information modeling, the existing CRS models are unable
to deal with the exploitation and exploration (E&E) problem well, resulting in the heavy burden on users. To address the aforementioned
issue, this work proposes a contextual information enhancement model tailored for CRS, called Knowledge Graph-enhanced Sampling
(KGenSam). KGenSam integrates the dynamic graph of user interaction data with the external knowledge into one heterogeneous
Knowledge Graph (KG) as the contextual information environment. Then, two samplers are designed to enhance knowledge by
sampling fuzzy samples with high uncertainty for obtaining user preferences and reliable negative samples for updating recommender
to achieve efﬁcient acquisition of user preferences and model updating, and thus provide a powerful solution for CRS to deal with E&E
problem. Experimental results on two real-world datasets demonstrate the superiority of KGenSam with signiﬁcant improvements over
state-of-the-art methods.
Index Terms—Conversational recommendation system, knowledge graph, negative sampling, active learning, reinforcement learning.
!
1 I NTRODUCTION
R
ECOMMENDER systems are the information ﬁltering
systems that help users ﬁlter a large number of invalid
information to obtain information or items by estimating
their interests and preferences. The mainstream traditional
recommendation systems mainly use ofﬂine and historical
user data to continuously train and optimize ofﬂine models,
and then recommend items for online users. There are three
main problems: the unrealistic estimation of user prefer-
ences based on sparse and noisy historical data [1], [2], [3],
the ignorance of online contextual factors that affect user
behavior [4], [5], [6], and the unreliable assumption that
users are aware of their preferences by default [7]. Inspired
by the dialogue systems, which focus on the user’s real-
time feedback data and obtains the user’s current interaction
intentions, a new recommendation method, Conversational
• Mengyuan Zhao is with the School of Computer and Information Tech-
nology & Beijing Key Lab of Trafﬁc Data Analysis and Mining, Beijing
Jiaotong University, Beijing 100044, China.
E-mail: 19120453@bjtu.edu.cn.
• Xiaowen Huang is with the School of Computer and Information Tech-
nology & Beijing Key Lab of Trafﬁc Data Analysis and Mining, Beijing
Jiaotong University, Beijing 100044, China.
E-mail: xwhuang@bjtu.edu.cn.
• Lixi Zhu is with the School of Computer and Information Technology &
Beijing Key Lab of Trafﬁc Data Analysis and Mining, Beijing Jiaotong
University, Beijing 100044, China.
E-mail: zlxxlz1026@gmail.com.
• Jitao Sang is with the School of Computer and Information Technology
& Beijing Key Lab of Trafﬁc Data Analysis and Mining, Beijing Jiaotong
University, Beijing 100044, China.
E-mail: jtsang@bjtu.edu.cn.
• Jian Yu is with the School of Computer and Information Technology &
Beijing Key Lab of Trafﬁc Data Analysis and Mining, Beijing Jiaotong
University, Beijing 100044, China.
E-mail: jianyu@bjtu.edu.cn.
Manuscript received July 1st, 2021; revised September 1st, 2021.
(Corresponding author: Xiaowen Huang.)
Recommendation System (CRS), is trying to combine the
interactive form of the dialogue systems with the recom-
mendation task and becomes an effective means to solve the
traditional recommendation problem. Through online inter-
active methods, CRS can guide and capture user’ current
preferences and interests by asking user whether he/she
likes an item attribute or not, and utilize the user’s preferred
attributes or rejected attributes to provide recommendation
results that most ﬁt users’ current preferences in time.
The core research difﬁculty of CRS is exploitation and
exploration (E&E) problem. Speciﬁcally, at each turn of
the conversational session, CRS may choose to utilize the
user preference information obtained during the previous
interaction to output the current best recommended items,
which is the exploitation of E&E; or choose to continue
to interact with users to obtain more real-time user pref-
erence information, which is the exploration of E&E. The
difﬁculty of solving CRS’s E&E problem lies in achieving
a special Nash equilibrium in the ﬁeld of recommendation
systems: if CRS is too inclined to choose exploitation action
(recommend) without understanding the current user pref-
erences, there will be a lot of failed recommendations which
poor user experience; in contrast, if CRS adopts excessive
exploration action (ask), the interaction burden on users will
be increased and the risk of user churn will become serious.
At present, CRS researchers mostly use Deep Reinforcement
Learning (DRL) to learn a conversational recommendation
policy to solve the E&E problem. Because DRL has the abil-
ity of sequential decision-making, and it naturally ﬁts with
the interaction form of CRS. From the experimental results
of the previous work, the CRS based on DRL achieves much
better results than other methods, and the state-of-the-art
CRS methods are all based on DRL. However, the existing
works of conversational recommendation fail to put forward
arXiv:2110.06637v1  [cs.IR]  13 Oct 2021
--- PAGE 2 ---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING, VOL. XX, NO. X, JUL Y 2021 2
an effective solution to E&E problem and build an efﬁcient
and accurate CRS, due to the lack of information utilization
of the interactive environment.
In this paper, we believe that sufﬁcient modeling of
environment information is the key point to solving the E&E
problem. Therefore, our goal is to build a CRS that can make
good use of the information of contextual environment at
each turn of conversational recommendations. From the per-
spective of data enhancement, we propose a novel solution
named Knowledge Graph-enhanced Sampling (KGenSam),
which solves the insufﬁcient information modeling problem
in CRS. In KGenSam, we introduce Knowledge Graph (KG)
into the basic CRS framework as its interactive environment,
and design two sampler modules to model and enhance the
information of KG environment. Hence, CRS will learn to
make E&E decisions based on enhanced knowledge.
KGenSam adopts the sampling method of KG nodes to
enhance knowledge in CRS. The design of the two samplers
in KGenSam is inspired by solving the following two spe-
ciﬁc problems which prevent CRS from making the optimal
decisions of E&E:
(1) What attributes should CRS ask to help the recom-
mender ﬁt the current user’s preferences efﬁciently? [8]
In a conversational recommendation session, CRS needs
to obtain sufﬁcient user preference information as much as
possible to achieve a successful recommendation that ﬁts
the current user preference. Obviously, on the premise of
successful recommendation in the ﬁnal round, the fewer
attributes the CRS asks, the shorter the interaction rounds,
and the higher the efﬁciency of CRS. We believe that every
asking opportunity of CRS is extremely valuable, and CRS
needs to obtain as much user preference information as
possible at everyask opportunity. In the design of this work,
we naturally refer to the core idea of Active Learning, that
is, when CRS chooses ask action, high-uncertainty attribute
candidates that can not be judged by the current model
need to be given priority attention. Because these attribute
samples with high uncertainty will greatly improve the
recommendation conﬁdence after being annotated by users
and will make great contributions to achieving the goal
of obtaining sufﬁcient user preferences with as little user
interaction burden as possible. Therefore, to screen out the
fuzzy samples with high uncertainty, we design an Active
Sampler, which takes the sample distribution state in KG
and conversation state as input and learns the features of
fuzzy samples via active reinforcement learning.
(2) How can CRS update the recommender precisely to
ﬁt the implicit preference information in user feedback?
To train an accurate personalized recommender, both
positive and negative samples of user feedback are required
[9], [10].The user interaction form of CRS naturally solves
the one-class problem [11] of traditional recommendation
that most user data is positive feedback. In CRS, besides the
user’s positive feedback data, the user’s explicit negative
feedback data can also be directly obtained. But CRS also
presents a new research challenge. The number of conver-
sation turns is often limited to more than a dozen, which
causes the amount of user feedback data in a conversation
recommendation session is also very limited. Generally,
sparse user feedback and huge candidate item space require
a lot of training data to train an effective recommender. How
to update the recommender by using rare online feedback
data has become a new challenge for researchers. Inspired
by the idea of solving one-class problems by negative
sampling in traditional recommendation systems, we try
to supplement sparse interactive data by enhancing the
positive and negative sample pairs in KG. We design a
Negative Sampler, which refers to the hard negative samples
mining method in image recognition. The Negative Sampler
takes the sample distribution state in KG and conversation
state as input, learns the features of hard negative samples
via reinforcement learning, and constructs the positive and
negative sample pairs enhanced from the user feedback data
to accurately update the recommender.
To evaluate the effectiveness of KGenSam, we con-
ducted experiments on the Yelp and LastFM datasets.
The experimental results show that KGenSam signiﬁ-
cantly outperforms the state-of-the-art CRS methods, in-
dicating that KGenSam has the ability to enhance the
user experience of the whole CRS. We release the codes,
datasets and demo of the KGenSam-based online CRS at
https://github.com/ORZisemoji/KGenSam.
In a nutshell, this work makes the following main con-
tributions:
• We propose the KGenSam model, which provides a
new angle for building CRS. By sampling in KG, KGen-
Sam enhances the contextual knowledge of CRS and
solves the E&E problem caused by insufﬁcient infor-
mation modeling of CRS. To the best of our knowledge,
it is the ﬁrst time to introduce the knowledge graph-
enhanced sampling method into the conversational rec-
ommendation.
• We introduce the active learning and the hard-negative
sample mining methods into CRS. By incorporating the
fuzzy samples and hard-negative samples in the CRS
task, we facilitate the utilization of KG for CRS, which
contributes to mine the user preference information in
the KG environment to solve the data sparsity problem
of the user feedback.
• Extensive experiments have been conducted on two
benchmark datasets, demonstrating that KGenSam-
based CRS is able to achieve better performance than
state-of-the-arts with much fewer conversation turns,
which indicates high sample efﬁciency.
• We implemented an online CRS to verify the effective-
ness of our method in real application scenarios.
2 R ELATED WORK
Recommender systems are the important applications of
artiﬁcial intelligence, which can help users ﬁnd the infor-
mation that ﬁts their preferences in the huge amount of
data when there is no clear demand or the environment
information is overloaded. At present, the mainstream rec-
ommendation systems are based on ofﬂine, historical user
data, constantly optimize the ofﬂine performance, train the
model, and then recommend items for online users. This
ofﬂine update mode makes the recommender systems have
inherent weakness [1], [2], [3], that is, it is difﬁcult to ﬁt
the user’s online behavior, and the user’s real-time feedback
will not be received in time [4], [5], [6], [7], so it is difﬁcult
--- PAGE 3 ---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING, VOL. XX, NO. X, JUL Y 2021 3
for the systems to know the user’s current intention and
interest when using the recommender systems.
The development of dialogue technology in dialogue
systems provides a new solution to the problems existing
in traditional recommendation systems, which is called con-
versational recommendation. Conversational recommenda-
tion breaks the barrier of information asymmetry between
systems and user in static recommendation systems through
rich interaction behavior, and allows recommendation sys-
tems to capture user preferences dynamically in the in-
teractive conversation with users. Based on the idea of
conversational recommendation, CRS is a task-oriented and
multi-rounds recommendation system, on the one hand, it
explores users’ current interest preferences, guides users to
ﬁnd new interest points, which realizes users’ long-term
retention; on the other hand, it also can receive feedback
from users and update the recommender in real-time, which
realizes dynamic learning of preferences.
Recently years, researchers have proposed different CRS
models designed from different perspectives. To deﬁne a
standard form for conversation recommendation, Zhang et
al. [12] proposed a conversation search engine called SAUR.
To solve the problem of user cold-start in the movie recom-
mendation scenario, Li et al. [13] designed a CRS that can
interact with users through natural language. To obtain both
long-term and real-time user preferences, Christakopoulou
et al. [14] designed a CRS that can take user interaction
history as part of input data. After that, Sun et al. [15]
considered multi-rounds interaction with the user and de-
signed a CRS that can obtain user attribute-level preferences
multiple times. Lei et al. [8] proposed a multi-rounds CRS
framework named EAR, which can obtain both item-level
and attribute-level feedback during the interaction. In order
to take full advantage of conversational recommendation,
Lei et al. [16] introduced KG into CRS and proposed a
new CRS framework called CPR. In order to make full
use of user feedback information, Xu et al. [17] proposed
FPAN framework, in which Gate Mechanism is used to
dynamically modify the representations of items and users
based on the feedback information.
Overall, the research of CRS is committed to improving
the satisfaction of online recommendations and the long-
term retention rate of users in the system, and DRL has
been widely used in CRS for learning conversational rec-
ommendation policy. However, the standard DRL model
can not meet the needs of CRS, researchers are faced with
the difﬁcult convergence problem of CRS’s training and
low effectiveness problem of CRS’s interaction. The main
reason for these problems is the lack of clear rules in the
contextual environment in CRS which leads to the lack of
clear reward function and clear action space in the train-
ing of the reinforcement model. This can be summarized
as the problem of insufﬁcient environmental information
modeling, which delays the updating of parameters in the
training interaction, so CRS needs more interaction rounds
to get user preference information and achieve a successful
recommendation.
3 P RELIMINARIES
3.1 Problem Formulation
In this subsection, We formally present interaction data and
KG in our Task.
Interaction Data. U, I and A denote the set of users,
items and attributes, respectively. Each item i∈ I is asso-
ciated with a set of attributes Pi ⊆ A. For each user, we
view each observed user-item interaction as a positive in-
stance, while sampling a negative item to pair the user. And
training interactive data is structured into two pairwise data
sets,OI andOA.OI andOA represent the user feedback on
items and attributes, respectively:
OI ={(u,i +,i−)|u∈U,i +∈I+,i−∈I−} (1)
where I+ denotes the sets of positive items, each of
which has at least one historical interaction record with
the user, and I− denote the sets of negative items, most of
which are implicit negative feedback data of the user, and
a few items are explicit negative feedback directly obtained
by CRS.
OA ={(u,p +,p−)|u∈U,p +∈A+,i−∈A−} (2)
whereA+ denotes the sets of positive attributes that are
the attributes of positive items or the user preferencesPu ac-
quired during the conversational recommendation session,
and A− denote the sets of negative attributes that are the
attributes of negative items or the ask attributes rejected by
the user during the conversational recommendation session.
Knowledge Graph. As prior efforts [18] show, items
in user-item interaction data can be aligned with the cor-
responding entities in external KG. With such alignments,
the external knowledge of item attributes as well as the
interaction data are organized in the form of heterogeneous
KG [19].
3.2 Background settings of CRS in Our Task
Recommender
recommend the output item
User
Feedback
Action: recommend
Action: ask
Interact Policy Network
Start①
②
②
③
Fig. 1. The basic framework and workﬂow of multi-round CRS.
As shown in Figure 1, the user is the interaction object
of CRS, and CRS mainly consists of a recommender module
and an interactive policy module: the recommender module
is responsible for generating a recommendation list based
on the user preference information; the interactive policy
--- PAGE 4 ---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING, VOL. XX, NO. X, JUL Y 2021 4
module is responsible for deciding whether to ask users for
more preference information or output recommended items
at current conversational turn. As shown in Figure 1, a con-
versational recommendation session starts when the user
enters the system, and then CRS chooses the recommend
action or the ask action according to the current under-
standing of the current user’s preferences. If therecommend
action is selected, the system will output the recommended
items ranked to the top by the recommender to the user,
and if the ask action is selected, the system will output the
asked item attributes selected by the interactive policy to the
user. After that, back to the user side, the user gives binary
feedback (accept or reject) on the recommended items or the
asked item attributes. The whole interactive session ends
when a successful recommendation is achieved or the set
maximum roundT is reached.
3.2.1 User Simulator
User simulator is used to replace real users to interact with
the system, making CRS tasks more suitable for ofﬂine
academic research. We use the same user simulator design
as [8], [15].
3.2.2 Recommender
In the existing research work of CRS, researchers tend to
choose the simple but effective recommendation model,
Factorization Machine(FM), as the recommender of CRS.
Because of its effectiveness and agility, FM can meet the
recommendation requirements of CRS without increasing
the complexity of CRS algorithm. Given user u and his/her
preferred attributesPu in the conversation, FM predict how
likelyu will like current itemi and current attributep in the
conversation session as:
˜f(i|u,Pu) = uT i +
∑
pk∈Pu
iT pk (3)
˜f(p|u,Pu) = uT p +
∑
pk∈Pu
pT pk (4)
The FM is trained by optimizing the pairwise Bayesian
Personalized Ranking (BPR) [9] objective which assumes
that the ground truth sample (item or attribute) should be
ranked higher than other samples, and the training losses of
the FM model are as follows:
Lossitem =
∑
(u,i+,i−)∈OI
− lnσ( ˜f(i+|u,P u)− ˜f(i−|u,P u))
+λΘF M∥ΘF M∥2
(5)
Lossattri =
∑
(u,p+,p−)∈OA
− lnσ( ˜f(p+|u,P u)− ˜f(p−|u,P u))
+λΘF M∥ΘF M∥2
(6)
3.2.3 Interact Policy Network
We use a two-layer feed forward neural network as the in-
teract policy network and use the standard Deep Q-learning
[20] for optimization. The policy network takes the cur-
rent session state statehis as input and outputs the values
Q(s,a ) for the two actions, aask andarec. CRS will choose
the action with higher estimated reward reward, which is
composed of rewardrec suc,rewardrec fail ,rewardask suc,
rewardask fail , rewardreach max turn. The value setting of
reward function is shown in section 5.2.3.
4 M ETHODOLOGY
4.1 Overview
Figure 2 illustrates the architecture of the proposed
KGenSam, a general solution framework for knowledge-
enhanced conversational recommendation. The middle sub-
graph in Figure 2 shows the main body of a typical CRS. The
workﬂow of the KGenSam CRS framework is as follows:
(1) Firstly, we construct the KG of user interaction data,
and integrate the external KG to enrich the context informa-
tion of interaction environment, and use knowledge to assist
CRS interaction agent to make the decisions of actions.
(2) On the basis of the KG environment, we use the
KG sampling methods [21], [22] to enhance the knowledge
and design two samplers based on reinforcement learning
for CRS. Two samplers sample fuzzy samples and negative
samples in KG respectively. Speciﬁcally, ﬁrst, the Active
Sampler focuses on the item attribute sample nodes rep-
resenting user preferences in the KG, outputs fuzzy sam-
ples with large uncertainty through active reinforcement
learning, and uses fuzzy samples for ask action of CRS, so
as to effectively improve the conﬁdence of the model and
improve the interaction efﬁciency of the system; second,
the Negative Sampler focuses on the item sample nodes
in the KG, outputs high-quality negative samples through
reinforcement learning, supplements sparse online user data
with negative samples, and updates the recommender with
positive and negative sample pairs, so as to improve the
update efﬁciency of the recommendation model. The two
samplers work together to achieve the efﬁcient acquisition
of user preferences and reduce the interaction rounds, which
reduce the user interaction burden.
The details of these two samplers modules will be dis-
cussed in section 4.2 and section 4.3 respectively.
(3) Finally, with the help of two samplers, the interactive
policy network module learns the conversational strategy
based on the enhanced knowledge, outputs the action ( ask
or recommend) to be taken by the system, which guides
the conversational direction, and realizes the acquisition of
online user preferences and the successful recommendation
of items that ﬁt the user’s current preferences at the last
turn.
4.2 Active Sampler via Active Reinforced Learning on
KG
As discussed before, one of the problems in CRS research
works is that ”What attributes to ask ?”, of which the
speciﬁc research content is to help the recommender ﬁt
the current user’s preferences efﬁciently. Corresponding to
--- PAGE 5 ---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING, VOL. XX, NO. X, JUL Y 2021 5
Fig. 2. KGenSam-based CRS framework overview. The key design is two sampler modules: (1) Negative Sampler outputs high-quality negative
item samples and constructs positive and negative sample pairs to the effective update of the recommender at each turn of conversation; (2) Active
Sampler outputs fuzzy item attribute samples with high uncertainty as the user preference information to be asked if CRS takes the ask action.
Number of Samples
Prediction Score Range
(a)
Number of Samples
Prediction Score Range
(b1)
Number of Samples
Prediction Score Range
(b2)
Number of Samples
Prediction Score Range
(b)
Active
Sampling
Fig. 3. Illustrations of the item attribute prediction score distribution
of user preference output by the recommender. (a) When the rec-
ommender is not fully trained, the recommender’s score on the item
attribute is mostly 0.5, meaning that the user’s preference for the at-
tribute is uncertain. (b) When the recommender is fully trained, the
prediction scores of item attributes are mostly close to 1.0 or 0.0, and
the distribution curve of the sample is similar to U, and different users
have different U, such as (b1) or (b2).
tackling this problem, the task of the Active Sampler is to
choose fuzzy samples of item attributes to ask so as to
shorten the conversation, as shown in Figure 3. In order
to deﬁne the active learning process more easily, we regard
the recommender as a two-classiﬁer. For each sample, the
recommender predicts whether belongs to user preferences,
and the output result is between 0 and 1. Further, we cast
active sampling as a Markov Decision Process (MDP) and
design a policy network to learn the optimal ask strategy.
4.2.1 MDP of Active Sampling in KG
In KG environment, there are 33 attributes in LastFM, 29
ﬁrst-level attributes and 590 second-level attributes in Yelp.
Considering that there are not many item attribute nodes,
we put all attribute nodes that are not labeled by users into
the candidate P oolp∗ (it should be noted here that it may
be a better method to collect the attribute nodes with one or
two hops of the current user node as the candidate pool for
the dataset with too many attributes, which is worth trying
in the future). Intuitively, given the condition of the current
state in KG, the Active Sampler takes an action by selecting
the next fuzzy attribute node to ask. It is then rewarded by
the performance gain of the FM trained with the updated set
of labeled nodes. Formally, the key elements of MDP (MDP
={S,A,P,R }) are deﬁned as follows.
State. The state vector is a concatenation of four com-
ponent vectors that encode environmental information from
different perspectives:
state =stateentropy⊕statedegree⊕stateKL
⊕stateselected⊕stateadj
(7)
• Stateentropy . Information theory often uses entropy
to measure the degree of chaos and uncertainty of a
system. The larger the entropy is, the more chaotic
and uncertain the information of the system is. On the
contrary, the smaller the entropy is, the more stable
and deterministic the system is. In this binary classi-
ﬁcation scenario, the entropy of candidate samples is
an important basis for the Active Sampler to sample.
Therefore, we calculate the entropy of the candidate
attribute sample nodes to calculate the uncertainty of
current environmental information, which is deﬁned as
follows :
−(ˆyP oolp∗ log ˆyP ool + (1− ˆyP oolp∗ ) log (1− ˆyP oolp∗ ))
(8)
• Statedegree .When calibrating an important node in
the network, the relevant graph node centrality dimen-
--- PAGE 6 ---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING, VOL. XX, NO. X, JUL Y 2021 6
sion is often used to deﬁne and measure the importance
of the node [23]. Consequently, we use degree centrality,
the most common graph node centrality dimension, to
measure the importance of attribute sample nodes in
KG. The deﬁnition is as follows :
min (degree(P oolp∗)/γ, 1) (9)
where the hyperparameter γ (set to 20) scale node
degree and clipStatedegree to 1.
• StateKL. Kullback–Leibler (KL) divergence can mea-
sure the ”distance” (asymmetric) between two proba-
bilities, so KL divergence can be used to calculate those
data samples with large deviation [24], [25]. We com-
pute the average KL divergence of the sample predicted
label distribution between the attribute sample node
and its neighbors , which can help the Active Sampler
better identify potential clusters and decision bound-
aries in KG. The StateKL measures local similarity as:
1
#neighbors (DKL(ˆyP oolp∗∥ˆyneighbors)+
DKL(ˆyneighbors∥ˆyP oolp∗ ))
(10)
• Stateselected. For p∈ P oolp∗, if p has been asked
and responded, stateselected(p) = 1; ifp has not been
chosen yet, stateselected(p) = 0.
• Statead j. In addition to the content information of the
candidate attribute nodes, we also take the structural
information of the current subgraph in KG as part of
the state. We construct the adjacency list dictionary
of P oolp∗ as statead j to take advantage of the KG
structure.
Action. The space of actions is P oolp∗, and Active
Sampler chooses an action at from P oolp∗ based on the
output results of active policy network, π(·|statet−1). As
the state is changing during the interaction, the action space
P oolp∗ is dynamic.
Reward. The reward measures the quality of the ask
attribute sample at each turn. However, there is no ground
truth in the selection of the best fuzzy samples in a active
learning model, reward rely on the feedback from the
recommender. Consequently, we use the increase of the FM
model’s performance score fromt tot + 1 turn to deﬁne the
soft reward function and design the reward as:
rewardt =Gain Score(ˆyt+1
valid, ˆyt
valid) (11)
where ˆyt
valid is the evaluation score of the FM model at turn
t andGain Score calculates the increase of the score, where
we use AUC as the evaluation metric.
State Transition Dynamic. Given an action at at state
statet , the transition to the next statestatet+1 is determined
as:
P (statet+1 = (u,at)|statet,at) = 1 (12)
Objective Function. Towards learning a stochastic pol-
icy π, we maximize the expected cumulative discounted
reward. The objective function with respect to the Active
Sampler parameters ΘAS is as follows:
max
ΘAS
∑
(u,p+,p−)∈OA
E π[
T∑
t=1
λt−1
ASrewardt] (13)
whereλAS is the decay factor.
4.2.2 Active Policy Network
As the right subgraph in Figure 2 shows, to effectively
propagate useful information over the KG and thereby
better measure node informativeness, we ﬁrst parameterize
the policy network π as a one-layer Graph Convolutional
Network (GCN) [26]. Then We use ReLU as the activation
function σ. On top of the GCN, we apply a linear layer to
output the ﬁnal output embedding and get the score for each
node. These scores are then normalized by a softmax layer
to generate a probability distribution over all candidate
attributesp in P oolp∗.
By maximizing its long-term returns with policy gra-
dient [27], active policy network can effectively learn to
optimize the long-term performance of the recommender
in an end-to-end fashion.
4.3 Negative Sampler via Reinforcement Learning on
KG
After solving the problem that CRS asks what attributes
to make each opportunity of ask the most efﬁcient, the
next problem naturally arises, that is, how can the feedback
signal of users for fuzzy samples be accurately learned by
the recommender ? In previous CRS work, all unobserved
interactions are regarded as negative samples, so it is easy
to produce low-quality negative samples, and it is difﬁcult
to update the model parameters of the recommender. Con-
sidering that CRS has very few session turns, the update of
recommender need to be accurate and rapid.
In recommendation systems, users often directly ignore
the uninterested items, which will not produce users’ ex-
plicit negative feedback behavior and leads to the com-
mon One-Class Problem of recommender training data.
To solve the negative sample missing problem caused by
One-Class data, traditional recommendation systems often
construct effective positive and negative sample pairs by
negative sampling to learn user preferences. Drawing on the
same idea, we design a Negative Sampler to help the rec-
ommender learn preference information as efﬁciently and
timely as the Active Sampler’s acquisition of user feedback
information. The collected high-quality negative samples
supplement the rare online negative feedback and user his-
tory positive samples. Similar to the active sampling, we cast
negative sampling as a MDP and design a policy network
to learn the features of high quality negative samples in
conversational recommendation.
4.3.1 MDP of Negative Sampling in KG
In KG environment, different from the Active Sampler, the
Negative Sampler needs to focus on the item nodes, so
the candidate set to been sampled is very large. Since the
Negative Sampler requires labor-intensive negative discov-
ering and is memory-consuming and time-consuming to
distill useful signals in large-scale KG. Thus, we design the
Negative Sampler to navigate from a positive item over the
KG structure likei+→p→i and yield two-hops neighbors
as candidate negative items . Conditioned on the navigated
local subgraph state, the Negative Sampler takes an action
by selecting a batch of possible negative samples from this
two-hops candidate items and construct training pairs with
ground-truth positive items. Similar to the reward design
--- PAGE 7 ---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING, VOL. XX, NO. X, JUL Y 2021 7
of Active Sampler, the reward of Negative Sampler is the
performance score of the FM trained with the constructed
positive and negative pairs. Formally, the key elements of
MDP (MDP ={S,A,P,R }) are deﬁned as follows.
State. Given user u, the statet at turn t is deﬁned as
subgraph paths (u→···→ it), where it is the node the
Negative Sampler visits currently.
Action. The space of actions is P ooli−, which is the
candidate sets of two hop neighbors.
Reward. The design goal of reward is to measure the
quality of negative samples. Similar to the concept of hard
negative in the ﬁeld of Image Detection, we need to ﬁnd
the discriminative negative samples which are easily mis-
judged by the recommender in the CRS task. Inspired by
the negative sampling model (KGPolicy) proposed by Wang
et al. [22], we apply the hypothesis and deﬁnition of ”Real
Negative Sample” to the negative sampling task scenario
of CRS. The deﬁnition of high-quality negative sample has
two characteristics: it is similar to the user representation
[28], [29]; it is close to the real positive sample. The negative
samples with these two characteristics can represent the
real negative samples and provide a larger gradient for the
parameter update of the recommender. From this point of
view, we deﬁne the reward of negative sampler as follows.
rewardt = (P oolt
i−)T· u + (P oolt
i−)T· i+ (14)
State Transition Dynamic. Given an action at at state
statet , the transition to the next statestatet+1 is determined
as:
P (statet+1 = (u,at)|statet,at) = 1 (15)
Objective Function. To maximize the sum of expected
rewards obtained from following policy π over the training
graphs, the objective function with respect to the negative
policy network parameters ΘNS is:
max
ΘN S
∑
(u,i+,i−)∈OI
E π[
T∑
t=1
λt−1
NSrewardt] (16)
whereλNS is the decay factor.
4.3.2 Negative Policy Network
As shown in the left side of Figure 2, the Negative Sampler
ﬁrst obtains the initial representation of the nodes through
one layer of GCN, which captures the knowledge-aware
negative signals, and then output a batch of negative item
nodes with high weight through the attention model con-
structed by two-layer activation function.
5 E XPERIMENTS AND ANALYSIS
5.1 Experimental Setup
5.1.1 Datasets
As summarized in Table 1, we use two publicly available
datasets: LastFM and Yelp. Each dataset is composed of
two components, the user-item interactions and KG derived
from external data sources, Freebase for LastFM and local
business information network for Yelp. The cut ratio of
training, validation and testing sets is 7: 1: 2. The yelp
dataset we use here is slightly different from EAR [8] and
TABLE 1
Dataset Statictics of LastFM and Y elp
LastFM Yelp
User-Item Interaction
#Users 1,801 27,675
#Items 7,432 70,311
#attributes 33 590
#Interactions 76,693 1,368,606
Knowledge Graph #Entities 9,266 98,576
#Triplets 138,217 2,533,827
CPR, using 590 second-level attributes instead of 29 ﬁrst-
level attributes. Thus, for real application scenarios, LastFM
represents the dataset with fewer attributes, Yelp represents
the dataset with more attributes.
5.1.2 Parameter Setting
The maximum turn T is set as 15. All hyperparameters for
ofﬂine training of FM remains the same as EAR [8]. The
detailed rewards and the hyperparameters of interact policy
net remain the same as CPR [16]. All the hyperparameters
related samplers training are tuned according to the valida-
tion set.
5.1.3 T raining Steps
The training process is made up of three stages.
Stage 1: Pretraining of recommender for scoring items
and attributes. Strictly following [8], we use the training set
of OI to optimize FM ofﬂine. We refer the readers to the
original paper [8] for more Information.
Stage 2: Pretraining of two samplers. The pretrained FM
is used to provide reward scores for two sampling networks.
The detailed pretraining process of samplers are shown in
Algorithm 1 and 2 respectively.
Stage 3: Online training of interact network. We use a
user simulator to interact with the user to train the policy
network. The interaction algorithm ﬂow of CRS based on
our KGenSam is shown in Algorithm 3.
5.1.4 Comparison Methods
We compare our method against the following baseline
methods:
• Abs Greedy [30].This method serves as a baseline where
the model only recommends items at each turn and
updates itself until it ﬁnally makes successful recom-
mendation.
• Max Entropy. This method is based on the maximum
entropy rule. It always chooses an attribute with the
maximum entropy within the current candidate item
set [31] to ask. Details can be found at [8].
• CRM [15]. This is a CRS model which is originally de-
signed for single-round recommendation. CRM records
user’s preference into a belief tracker, and uses rein-
forcement learning to learn the policy of interaction. We
follow [8] to adapt it to the multi-round scenario.
• EAR [8]. This is the state-of-the-art method which pro-
posed a three stage solution, Estimation Action Reﬂec-
tion.
--- PAGE 8 ---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING, VOL. XX, NO. X, JUL Y 2021 8
Algorithm 1 Pretrain the Active Sampler
Input: OA, FM
Output: Active Sampler Policyπ
for (u,p +,p−)∈OA do
Poolp∗←A
fort = 1 toT do
select a batch ranked p∗
t fromPoolp∗
ifp∗
t inA+
u then
p+
u←p∗
t
update FM based on p+
u
else
p−
u←p∗
t
update FM based on p−
u
end if
removep∗
t fromPoolp∗
end for
evaluate FM on the validation set to get the reward
signal ∑T
t=1rewardt
updateπ with policy gradient
end for
Algorithm 2 Pretrain the Negative Sampler
Input: OI, FM
Output: Negative Sampler Policyπ
for (u,i +,i−)∈OI do
Batchi−←{},Pool i−←{},is←i+
fors = 1 tosteps do
get neighborsNeighborsis ofis
traverseNeighborsis asis
for eachineighbor∈Neighborsis do
ifineighbor /∈I+ then
addineighbor toPooli−
end if
end for
select a batch ranked Batchi− fromPooli−
update FM based on Batchi− andi+
evaluate FM on the validation set to get the reward
signal ∑B
t=1rewardt
updateπ with policy gradient
end for
end for
• SCPR [16]. This is the simple implementation model of
the state-of-the-art work, CPR, which introduces KG in
CRS for the ﬁrst time.
• FPAN [17]. This is the latest CRS research work. It pays
attention to the correction effect of user feedback on
recommendation and adjusts the node representation
of KG through the Gate Mechanism, which signiﬁcantly
improves the CRS recommendation results hence being
the most comparable model.
5.1.5 Evaluation Metrics
The evaluation follows [8]. We use the success rate at the
15th turn of conversation (SR@15) to measure the cumu-
lative ratio of successful recommendation by turn 15 . We
also use and average average turns (AT) of conversation
length when the interaction process ends to record the
average number of turns for a successful recommendation.
Algorithm 3 KGenSam-based CRS Algorithm
Input: OI,OA, FM, Active Sampler, Negative Sampler
Output: Conversation Recommendation Policyπ
for (u,i +,i−)∈OI, (u,p +,p−)∈OA do
P +
u ←{p+
0},P−
u ←{},Pool p∗←A
Pooli−←Neighborsi+−I+
fort = 1 toT do
select an actionat from{ask,rec}
Negative Sampler selects negative batch Batchi−
ifat =ask then
removep+
t−1 fromPoolp∗
Active Sampler selects a p∗
t fromPoolp∗
if useru acceptsp∗
t then
addp∗
t toP +
u
else
addp∗
t toP−
u
end if
else
FM outputsi+
t to recommend
if useru accepti+
t then
achieve successful recommendation and quit!
else
addi+
t toBatchi−
end if
end if
update FM based on P +
u ,P−
u andBatchi−
end for
reach the maximum turns and quit!
end for
Therefore, the higher SR@15 and the lower AT indicate a
higher performance and overall higher efﬁciency.
Success Rate@15.
SR@15 = 1
#users×T
∑
u∈U
T∑
t=1
θhit (17)
whereθhit = 1, if the instinctive feedback of the recom-
mended item given by the simulator is acceptance.
Average T urns.
AT = 1
#users
∑
u∈U
Tends (18)
whereTends is the total turns when the current conver-
sation session ends.
5.2 Results and Discussion
5.2.1 Overall Performance Comparison
The results are summarized in Table 2. Overall, it can be seen
that the proposed KGenSam architecture outperforms other
baselines in both terms of SR@15 and AT, which validates
our hypothesis that enhancing the information modeling of
interactive environment is an effective strategy to improve
the performance of CRS.
By intuitively presenting the performance comparison in
Figure 4, we also have following discoveries:
• For Yelp dataset which has large attribute space, the
performance of all baseline methods is not satisfactory,
CRM and EAR models can not even achieve the perfor-
mance of Max Entropy method.
--- PAGE 9 ---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING, VOL. XX, NO. X, JUL Y 2021 9
Fig. 4. SR of compared methods at different turns on LastFM and Y elp.
TABLE 2
Success Rate@15 and Average Turns
LastFM Yelp
SR@15 AT SR@15 AT
Abs Greedy 0.222 13.48 0.189 13.43
Max Entropy 0.283 13.91 0.398 13.42
CRM 0.325 13.75 0.177 13.69
EAR 0.429 12.88 0.182 13.63
SCPR 0.465 12.86 0.489 12.62
FPAN 0.667 10.14 0.588 12.65
KGenSam 0.948 6.43 0.810 7.72
improve 42.0%↑ 36.6%↑ 37.8%↑ 38.8%↑
• From the improvement trend of success rate in the
whole conversation, we can clearly ﬁnd that the ﬁrst six
rounds of interaction of the baseline methods are in a
”Chilling Period”, during which the success rate of rec-
ommendation is very low, and after the sixth round, the
success rate of CRS slowly increases. However, KGen-
Sam does not have such a ”Chilling Period”, which can
improve the success rate after each round of interac-
tion, and the improvement of the early interaction is
even greater than that of the later interaction, which is
consistent with the trend of the accuracy improvement
curve of Active Learning in the classiﬁcation model an-
notation task. This consistency veriﬁes our hypothesis
that the idea of active learning can effectively integrate
with CRS task.
5.2.2 Evaluating Key Designs in KGenSam
The key designs of KGenSam are the two sampler modules.
In order to evaluate whether the two samplers can meet
our expectations, that is, to accurately select the asked
attribute samples and efﬁciently update the recommender,
we designed the following ablation experiments.
(1) w/o Active Sampler : We select attribute samples
with the maximum scores (calculated by propagating mes-
sages like CPR [16]) to ask.
(2) w/o Negative Sampler : We randomly select item
samples without interaction as negative samples to update
the recommender.
(3) w/o Samplers : Neither of the two sampling modules
works. We only use KG as the environment, and the se-
lection methods of asked attributes and negative items are
consistent with (1) and (2).
Table 3 shows the success rate of every three turns and
the average rounds of a session under the above three
ablation experimental settings. It can be seen that when two
samplers work at the same time, the performance of the
complete KGenSam is the best.
In addition, we have the following conclusions based on
the success rate trend in Figure 5:
• The Active Sampler changes the shape of the success
rate curve and makes it convex upward, indicating that
--- PAGE 10 ---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING, VOL. XX, NO. X, JUL Y 2021 10
TABLE 3
Performance of removing Samplers from KGenSam
LastFM Yelp
SR@3 SR@6 SR@9 SR@12 SR@15 AT SR@3 SR@6 SR@9 SR@12 SR@15 AT
w/o Active Sampler 0.000 0.085 0.324 0.561 0.7225 (23.8%↓) 9.18 0.000 0.036 0.143 0.247 0.309 (61.9%↓) 12.94
w/o Negative Sampler 0.157 0.355 0.491 0.602 0.673 (29.0%↓) 10.55 0.135 0.288 0.417 0.514 0.572 (29.4%↓) 10.23
w/o Samplers 0.000 0.051 0.204 0.353 0.455 (52.0%↓) 12.65 0.000 0.000 0.023 0.090 0.195 (75.9%↓) 12.59
KGenSam 0.217 0.493 0.690 0.830 0.948 6.43 0.184 0.394 0.580 0.714 0.810 7.72
Fig. 5. Success rate of different ablation setting KGenSam on LastFM and Y elp.
the Active Sampler changes the magnitude of user pref-
erence information acquisition per turn. As indicated
in Figure 5, the Active Sampler can greatly improve
the performance of CRS in the ﬁrst six rounds of the
dialogue, which means it can help CRS solve the prob-
lem of ”Chilling Period” (the phenomenon mentioned
in the previous section). Figure 5 illustrates that the
fuzzy attribute samples output by the Active Sampler
are indeed the most uncertain user preferences in the
current system, which means the attribute knowledge
enhanced by the Active Learning idea can help CRS
ask the user preference information accurately.
• As shown in Figure 5, from the blue line to the black
line and from the orange line to the red line, we can
see that the Negative Sampler makes the success rate
curve move upward as a whole, which indicates that
the Negative Sampler improves the learning speed of
user preference information, and makes the success rate
rise to a relatively high level earlier.
• From Figure 5, we can also notice that KGenSam with
Active and Negative Samplers removed separately be-
haves differently on the two datasets. For the LastFm
with fewer attributes, the effect of removing the active
sampler is less than that of removing the Negative Sam-
pler; while for Yelp with more attributes, the opposite
is true. Through the analysis of this result, we believe
that the Active Sampler can play a greater role in the
complex data environment because it focuses on the
selection of attribute nodes. Thus, the Active Sampler
has a greater impact on Yelp which has a large number
of attributes.
• Table 3 and Figure 5 verify that the Active Samplers
are responsible for obtaining a large amount of user
preference information, and the Negative Samplers are
responsible for learning the acquired information. Two
key designs achieve a high-performance CRS by jointly
--- PAGE 11 ---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING, VOL. XX, NO. X, JUL Y 2021 11
TABLE 4
Reward Settings of Interact Policy Network in CRS
RCP R Rask more Rrec more REAR
reward ask suc 0.01 0.1 0.01 0.01+0.1
reward ask f ail -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 0.01+0
reward rec suc 1 1 1 0.01+1
reward rec f ail -0.1 -1 -0.01 0.01+0
reward reach max turn -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 -0.3
enhancing the environmental information in KG.
5.2.3 Performance under Different Reward
Fig. 6. Rec Ratios of KGenSam-based CRS trained with different reward
settings in LastFM.
In the process of experiment, we found a phenomenon
worthy of attention, that is, the reward setting of interact
policy network has a great impact on the ﬁnal evaluation
result of CRS, which may be due to the current evaluation
metrics of CRS is not comprehensive enough. For example,
the value settings of reward in the two representative CRS
works, EAR and CPR, are totally different. We use the same
reward setting of CPR which is also based on KG as the
default reward setting in our KGenSam framework. In order
to further verify the effect of reward setting in CRS, we
design several kinds of reward settings as shown in Table
4, in which rewardask suc, rewardask fail , rewardrec suc,
rewardrec fail andrewardreach max turn represent ”ask at-
tribute succeed”, ”ask attribute fail”, ”recommend succeed”,
”recommend fail” and ”reach maximum turn” respectively.
RCPR (default setting) and REAR are the reward settings
of CPR and EAR. In addition, we increase rewardask suc
and decrease rewardrec fail to set Rask more which can
tend to ask, in the same way, we set Rrec more to incline
recommend.
It can be seen from Figure 6 that reward setting can
affect the probability of taking recommend action. The
reward setting of CPR makes the rec ratio of each round
extremely high, and the ﬁnal performance on both SR@T an
AT is also the best, which veriﬁes our previous conjecture.
We boldly draw the conclusion that rec ratio is positively
correlated with the two evaluation indicators, which needs
to be veriﬁed by more research in the future.
6 C ONCLUSION
In this paper, we provide a new idea for the research of
CRS, that is to solve the problem of insufﬁcient environ-
mental information modeling in CRS from the perspective
of knowledge enhancement. The experimental results show
that this perspective is reliable and effective. We construct
an Active Sampler to focus on the fuzzy attribute nodes
in the graph to maximize the amount of information ob-
tained by each ask turn. At the same time, the Negative
Sampler we constructed focus on the high-quality negative
samples in KG, so as to maximize the learning speed of
each recommender update. As far as we know, we are the
ﬁrst to deﬁne the idea of Active Learning into the CRS
problem and achieve the experimental results overcoming
”Chilling Period” problem. This idea of Active Learning
to screen fuzzy samples in KG can also be applied to the
cold start problem of KG based recommendation system.
In addition, we also introduce hard negative Samples into
CRS to achieve efﬁcient CRS online update and promote the
commercial online application of CRS.
In the future, we will try to introduce more evaluation
metrics to solve the incomplete evaluation problem in CRS
research. In addition, the current CRS research is based on
single session (including single-round and multi-rounds).
Our KGenSam method has achieved high evaluation results
in the single session scenario where the conversation ends
after only one successful recommendation, but we believe
that single-session CRS is obviously not in line with the real
recommendation scenario. Therefore, from the perspective
of sequential recommendation modeling, we will study
multi-session modeling of CRS to extend our KGenSam
framework, which may improve the possibility of CRS being
widely used in business scenarios.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work is supported by the National Key R&D Program
of China (2018AAA0100604), the Fundamental Research
Funds for the Central Universities (2021RC217), the Beijing
Natural Science Foundation (JQ20023), the National Natural
Science Foundation of China (61632002, 61832004, 62036012,
61720106006).
REFERENCES
[1] W. Wang, F. Feng, X. He, L. Nie, and T. Chua, “Denoising
implicit feedback for recommendation,” in WSDM ’21, The
Fourteenth ACM International Conference on Web Search and Data
Mining, Virtual Event, Israel, March 8-12, 2021 , L. Lewin-Eytan,
D. Carmel, E. Yom-Tov, E. Agichtein, and E. Gabrilovich,
Eds. ACM, 2021, pp. 373–381. [Online]. Available: https:
//doi.org/10.1145/3437963.3441800
[2] W. Wang, F. Feng, X. He, H. Zhang, and T. Chua, “”click” is not
equal to ”like”: Counterfactual recommendation for mitigating
clickbait issue,” CoRR, vol. abs/2009.09945, 2020. [Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2009.09945
[3] H. Lee, J. Im, S. Jang, H. Cho, and S. Chung, “Melu: Meta-learned
user preference estimator for cold-start recommendation,” ACM,
2019.
[4] Y. Cen, J. Zhang, X. Zou, C. Zhou, H. Yang, and J. Tang,
“Controllable multi-interest framework for recommendation,”
in KDD ’20: The 26th ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge
Discovery and Data Mining, Virtual Event, CA, USA, August
23-27, 2020 , R. Gupta, Y. Liu, J. Tang, and B. A. Prakash,
Eds. ACM, 2020, pp. 2942–2951. [Online]. Available: https:
//doi.org/10.1145/3394486.3403344
--- PAGE 12 ---
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON KNOWLEDGE AND DATA ENGINEERING, VOL. XX, NO. X, JUL Y 2021 12
[5] C. Gao, S. Yuan, Z. Zhang, H. Yin, and J. Shao, BLOMA: Explain
Collaborative Filtering via Boosted Local Rank-One Matrix Approxima-
tion. Complexity in Polish Phonotactics, 2019.
[6] R. Jagerman, I. Markov, and M. Rijke, “When people change their
mind: Off-policy evaluation in non-stationary recommendation
environments,” in the Twelfth ACM International Conference, 2019.
[7] W. Wang and I. Benbasat, “A Contingency Approach to Inves-
tigating the Effects of User-System Interaction Modes of Online
Decision Aids,” INFORMATION SYSTEMS RESEARCH , vol. 24,
no. 3, pp. 861–876, SEP 2013.
[8] W. Lei, X. He, Y. Miao, Q. Wu, R. Hong, M.-Y. Kan, and T.-S. Chua,
“Estimation-action-reﬂection: Towards deep interaction between
conversational and recommender systems,” in Proceedings of the
13th International Conference on Web Search and Data Mining , 2020,
pp. 304–312.
[9] S. Rendle, C. Freudenthaler, Z. Gantner, and L. Schmidt-Thieme,
“Bpr: Bayesian personalized ranking from implicit feedback,”
AUAI Press, 2012.
[10] X. He, H. Zhang, M. Kan, and T. Chua, “Fast matrix factorization
for online recommendation with implicit feedback,” in Proceedings
of the 39th International ACM SIGIR conference on Research and
Development in Information Retrieval, SIGIR 2016, Pisa, Italy, July
17-21, 2016 , R. Perego, F. Sebastiani, J. A. Aslam, I. Ruthven,
and J. Zobel, Eds. ACM, 2016, pp. 549–558. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/2911451.2911489
[11] R. Pan, Y. Zhou, B. Cao, N. N. Liu, R. M. Lukose,
M. Scholz, and Q. Yang, “One-class collaborative ﬁltering,”
in Proceedings of the 8th IEEE International Conference on
Data Mining (ICDM 2008), December 15-19, 2008, Pisa, Italy .
IEEE Computer Society, 2008, pp. 502–511. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1109/ICDM.2008.16
[12] Y. Zhang, X. Chen, Q. Ai, L. Yang, and W. B. Croft, “Towards
conversational search and recommendation: System ask, user re-
spond,” in Proceedings of the 27th acm international conference on
information and knowledge management, 2018, pp. 177–186.
[13] R. Li, S. Kahou, H. Schulz, V . Michalski, L. Charlin, and C. Pal,
“Towards deep conversational recommendations,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1812.07617, 2018.
[14] K. Christakopoulou, A. Beutel, R. Li, S. Jain, and E. H. Chi, “Q&r:
A two-stage approach toward interactive recommendation,” in
Proceedings of the 24th ACM SIGKDD International Conference on
Knowledge Discovery & Data Mining, 2018, pp. 139–148.
[15] Y. Sun and Y. Zhang, “Conversational recommender system,” in
The 41st international acm sigir conference on research & development
in information retrieval, 2018, pp. 235–244.
[16] W. Lei, G. Zhang, X. He, Y. Miao, X. Wang, L. Chen, and T.-S. Chua,
“Interactive path reasoning on graph for conversational recom-
mendation,” in Proceedings of the 26th ACM SIGKDD International
Conference on Knowledge Discovery & Data Mining , 2020, pp. 2073–
2083.
[17] K. Xu, J. Yang, J. Xu, S. Gao, J. Guo, and J. Wen, “Adapting
user preference to online feedback in multi-round conversational
recommendation,” in WSDM ’21, The Fourteenth ACM International
Conference on Web Search and Data Mining, Virtual Event, Israel,
March 8-12, 2021 , L. Lewin-Eytan, D. Carmel, E. Yom-Tov,
E. Agichtein, and E. Gabrilovich, Eds. ACM, 2021, pp. 364–372.
[Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3437963.3441791
[18] W. X. Zhao, G. He, H. Dou, J. Huang, S. Ouyang, and
J. Wen, “Kb4rec: A dataset for linking knowledge bases
with recommender systems,” CoRR, vol. abs/1807.11141, 2018.
[Online]. Available: http://arxiv.org/abs/1807.11141
[19] ——, “Kb4rec: A dataset for linking knowledge bases with
recommender systems,” CoRR, vol. abs/1807.11141, 2018.
[Online]. Available: http://arxiv.org/abs/1807.11141
[20] M. Volodymyr, K. Koray, S. David, . Rusu, Andrei A, V . Joel,
. Bellemare, Marc G, G. Alex, R. Martin, . Fidjeland, Andreas K,
and O. Georg, “Human-level control through deep reinforcement
learning,” Nature, vol. 518, no. 7540, pp. 529–33, 2019.
[21] S. Hu, Z. Xiong, M. Qu, X. Yuan, M. C ˆot´e, Z. Liu, and
J. Tang, “Graph policy network for transferable active learning
on graphs,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems
33: Annual Conference on Neural Information Processing Systems
2020, NeurIPS 2020, December 6-12, 2020, virtual , H. Larochelle,
M. Ranzato, R. Hadsell, M. Balcan, and H. Lin, Eds., 2020.
[Online]. Available: https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2020/
hash/73740ea85c4ec25f00f9acbd859f861d-Abstract.html
[22] X. Wang, Y. Xu, X. He, Y. Cao, M. Wang, and T. Chua, “Reinforced
negative sampling over knowledge graph for recommendation,”
in WWW ’20: The Web Conference 2020, Taipei, Taiwan, April
20-24, 2020 , Y. Huang, I. King, T. Liu, and M. van Steen,
Eds. ACM / IW3C2, 2020, pp. 99–109. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/3366423.3380098
[23] C. Kiss, A. Scholz, and M. Bichler, “Evaluating centrality measures
in large call graphs,” in IEEE International Conference on E-commerce
Technology & the IEEE International Conference on Enterprise Comput-
ing, 2006.
[24] C. M. Hurvich and S. C. L. Tsai, “Improved estimators of kull-
back–leibler information for autoregressive model selection in
small samples,” Biometrika, vol. 77, no. 4, pp. 709–719, 1990.
[25] A. Smith, P . A. Naik, and C. L. Tsai, “Markov-switching model
selection using kullback–leibler divergence,” SSRN Electronic Jour-
nal, vol. 134, no. 2, pp. 553–577, 2005.
[26] T. N. Kipf and M. Welling, “Semi-supervised classiﬁcation with
graph convolutional networks,” in 5th International Conference
on Learning Representations, ICLR 2017, Toulon, France, April
24-26, 2017, Conference Track Proceedings . OpenReview.net,
2017. [Online]. Available: https://openreview.net/forum?id=
SJU4ayYgl
[27] R. S. Sutton, D. Mcallester, S. Singh, and Y. Mansour, “Policy gra-
dient methods for reinforcement learning with function approx-
imation,” Submitted to Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, vol. 12, 1999.
[28] D. H. Park and Y. Chang, “Adversarial sampling and training for
semi-supervised information retrieval,” in The World Wide Web
Conference, WWW 2019, San Francisco, CA, USA, May 13-17, 2019 ,
L. Liu, R. W. White, A. Mantrach, F. Silvestri, J. J. McAuley,
R. Baeza-Yates, and L. Zia, Eds. ACM, 2019, pp. 1443–1453.
[Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3308558.3313416
[29] J. Wang, L. Yu, W. Zhang, Y. Gong, and D. Zhang, “Irgan: A mini-
max game for unifying generative and discriminative information
retrieval models,” in SIGIR 2017 - 40th International ACM SIGIR
Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval ,
2017.
[30] K. Christakopoulou, F. Radlinski, and K. Hofmann, “Towards
conversational recommender systems,” in Proceedings of the 22nd
ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery
and Data Mining, San Francisco, CA, USA, August 13-17, 2016 ,
B. Krishnapuram, M. Shah, A. J. Smola, C. C. Aggarwal, D. Shen,
and R. Rastogi, Eds. ACM, 2016, pp. 815–824. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1145/2939672.2939746
[31] B. Dhingra, L. Li, X. Li, J. Gao, Y. Chen, F. Ahmed, and
L. Deng, “Towards end-to-end reinforcement learning of dialogue
agents for information access,” in Proceedings of the 55th
Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics,
ACL 2017, Vancouver, Canada, July 30 - August 4, Volume 1:
Long Papers , R. Barzilay and M. Kan, Eds. Association for
Computational Linguistics, 2017, pp. 484–495. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/P17-1045